All right, with that,
let's talk about just enough
electronics to make you dangerous,
which is literally the bare minimum of
this cuz you do not need a ton of this.
You just need to know a few concepts
that will help us out along the way.
So this is my very helpful diagram
to help explain Ohms law to you,
which is basically, we have three
major concepts that we care about.
Voltage, the euphemism.
If you look up how do I explain Ohms
law's is I use water in a hose,
which I feel is somewhat inappropriate for
electricity and somewhat rude.
So I chose to just modify it a little bit
which is how much pressure do you have?
How much voltage you starting out with, if
you have a lot, you have a little, cool.
There's a lot coming in there, right?
The current is, how wide is the tube?
As you know they're in a series of
tubes that cats run through, right?
So how many cats do you have?
That's the voltage, right?
How wide is the Internet tube in which
the cat memes can go through it and
then anything that constricts
that is the resistance, right?
So you could have a lot of
cat memes running through and
then all of a sudden you have maybe
something limiting the Wi Fi then there is
less cat memes going through.
In a lot of cases like most of
the Arduino pins create 5 volts.
All those digital pins, they send 5 volts,
they don't send 5 volts.
The 5 volt pin,
spoiler alert, sends 5 volts.
The 3.3 volt pin, which we will not
use today, sends 3.3 volts, right?
Sometimes, that is enough
to cause trouble, right?
So sometimes we will use a resistor
to kind of limit that a little bit.
The LED that we're gonna plug in in
a second, could you send 5 volts to it?
I can confirm that you can.
Should you?
You should not, right?
And one of my goals today with this
workshop is I obviously hope you
learn a bunch of stuff you get
a lot of value out of this.
If I do not set this place on fire, we're
gonna count that as a total win, right?
So for some of this stuff,
we will be responsible that we will
use the resistors when appropriate.
I will tell you at one point in particular
when we get to the temperature sensor,
if you smell plastic burning,
just unplug the thing please.
[LAUGH] All right, there are one or
two pieces that if you put them in
backwards and then you smell
a funny smell just unplug it.
[LAUGH] I say this from experience.
So just already don't
assume everything is fine.
When in doubt unplug it and
we will deal with it from there.
But I think that amount
kind of starts us out.
And then we've got, where this also
becomes important is we've got polarized
and non-polarized components.
Now, I assume that most of you
have used a battery before, right?
And in those cases, we know that there
is a right way to put in a battery that
works, and a wrong way to put in
a battery that doesn't work, right?
And for most appliance,
we have to put it in twice.
It's kind of like a USB cord, right?
You got to try both sides before
you realize which one works.
Some things we're going to use
a polarized, which are the LEDs.
We're not gonna use a battery, but
some things matter the order that
they go in, the temperature sensor.
Some things do not matter,
right, like a button,
something along those lines, right?
And so in some cases it matters.
In other cases, it does not matter.
I could run through a whole bunch
of electronics terms that will
maybe one day become useful for you.
But in this case, understanding that for
the most part, we've got a bunch of little
components like LEDs, like buttons,
like sensors that we're gonna use.
We've got some resistors.
We've got wires.
That's about like you're now caught up.
All right,
that's about as much as you need.
There's some other fun stuff in there.
I will say like we are not doing this
today because involved bringing stuff that
you don't have but they're like the last
example in the Arduino starter kit
is how to hook up something to one of
your remotes and control it with code.
I was not gonna say, hey everyone, please
bring a TV remote you're happy to lose,
that felt rude.
But on your own, [LAUGH] for
your own edification afterwards.
That is definitely a thing you can do.
But we're gonna keep it mostly
simple cuz our main focus today
is not just the electronics pieces.
But actually what new and
really aspirational things can we do with
the Venn diagram of not only the fact that
we have hardware at por disposal, but
then also the fact that we have all of
the JavaScript ecosystem at our disposal.
And we only got a day together, right?
And so let's laser focus on that.
Awesome, so let's look at this first LED.
So we've got that built in one.
We should also talk a little bit about how
to actually do something from the outside
world cuz yes, it was very rewarding
to make the little built-in LED blink.
I'm glad we all had to share
that experience together, but
now let's hook up some
external stuff to it.
So the LED is one of the first kind of
like polarized components that we'll use.
The long tail is the positive side, right?
All circuits kind of run from
the source all the way into ground.
So from positive to negative, right?
Like any good emo album.
And we start with the positive
through the negative so
that this is one of those polarized
components that we care about as well.
We're also gonna use a resistor, right?
And resistors have color codes on them.
You'll notice that there
are two different ones here.
There are four bands and
there are five bands.
May having opened one of these kits a few
weeks ago I think we have the five bands
in there.
But I show both diagrams just in case we
all open these kits and find a surprise or
later when you're watching this video or
watching at home You have different ones
lying around those will work as well.
It's not that the blue ones
are different than the brown ones,
it is simply that the blue ones have more
bands to help you try to figure it out.
But like it's basically each
band represents a digit, right?
And so Brown is 1, black is 0 so
it looks like a 10k ohm.
One other box.
I'm thinking yeah.
And so a lot of times you can stare at it.
The other life hack that I will tell
you is if you just order capacitor or
I'm sorry, resistors off of Amazon,
they come in a little baggy,
that just tells you
the answer on the back.
So you can squint and
hold it up to this chart.
And I think you might have
to a little bit today,.
But I'm gonna show you a cheat sheet in
a second 'cause we're only gonna use two
different values and you can just kind of
look at those two different values and
figure it out.
Like right now but in general, the life
hack that I use is if you just order them
and don't throw .away the packaging,
the answer is in the packaging.